dev/doxygen/pages/workspace.md, before:

Workspace Specification {#doc_workspace}
========================================

[TOC]

This is the documentation of a LibrePCB workspace. Such a workspace is represented by an instance of
the class librepcb::workspace::Workspace.


# File Structure {#doc_workspace_file_structure}

Basically, a workspace contains following entries:

    workspace-root/
        ├── .librepcb-workspace
        ├── projects/
        └── v<VERSION>/
            ├── settings.lp
            └── libraries/
                ├── local/
                └── remote/

## .librepcb-workspace

This file indicates that the directory is a LibrePCB workspace and also contains the file format
version. See @ref doc_versioning for more information about LibrePCB's file format versioning system.
Because the workspace is intended to be forward compatible (i.e. should be usable with all future
LibrePCB releases), the workspace file format should always stay at `v0.1`.

## projects/ {#doc_workspace_projects_dir}

This is the default location where all newly created projects are stored. The user can organize his
projects in an arbitrary, hierarchical system inside that directory. But of course it's also
possible to store projects outside this directory.

Each project is represented by a directory, see its
[file structure documentation](@ref doc_project_filestructure) for details.

## v<VERSION>/ {#doc_workspace_version_dir}

For each major application version, a separate directory is created to store
workspace metadata (e.g. settings) and libraries. These directories are named
according the file format version of the application (e.g. `v0.1`, `v1` or `v2`).
A specific application version may access the metadata/libraries of its
corresponding directory or any older version directory. Directories of newer
versions will be ignored.

## v<VERSION>/settings.lp {#doc_workspace_settings_file}

This file contains workspace settings (selected language/locale, measurement
unit, ...).

## v<VERSION>/libraries/ {#doc_workspace_libraries_dir}

Here are all libraries located, split up into two subdirectories. By the way, all of these
libraries together are sometimes referred as *the workspace library*.

## v<VERSION>/libraries/local/ {#doc_workspace_local_dir}

In this directory are all regular, writable libraries located. For example if the user creates a new
library, it will be stored here. Each library is represented by one subdirectory. The contained file
structure is documented [here](@ref doc_library_file_structure).

The basename of the directories is freely choosable by the user, and the suffix must be `.lplib`.

## v<VERSION>/libraries/remote/ {#doc_workspace_remote_dir}

This directory contains also libraries, but only those which are managed by LibrePCB itself. So all
libraries which are downloaded through the [LibrePCB Repository API](@ref doc_repository) using the
library manager. Because they are updated by LibrePCB, the user cannot modify them (i.e. they are
read-only). To modify them anyway, the user can copy them as local libraries and make changes there.

The libraries [UUID] is used as directory basenames (with `.lplib` suffix) to avoid name conflicts.

# Example {#doc_workspace_example}

This is an example how a workspace could look like:

    MyAwesomeWorkspace/
        ├── .librepcb-workspace
        ├── projects/
        │   ├── Project_A/
        │   ├── Project_B/
        │   └── Project_C/
        ├── v0.1/
        │   ├── settings.lp
        │   └── libraries/
        │       ├── local/
        │       │   ├── Library_A.lplib/
        │       │   ├── Library_B.lplib/
        │       │   └── Library_C.lplib/
        │       └── remote/
        │           ├── 5d9abd1b-cf0b-4cf7-8666-20a1add9971e.lplib/
        │           ├── 193ef70d-8dab-4a6c-a672-274c5bf09b68.lplib/
        │           └── c2c427a9-17c6-4400-981c-6ece1c9735c3.lplib/
        ├── v1/
        │   ├── settings.lp
        │   └── libraries/
        │       ├── local/
        │       │   ├── Library_A.lplib/
        │       │   ├── Library_B.lplib/
        │       │   └── Library_C.lplib/
        │       └── remote/
        │           ├── 5d9abd1b-cf0b-4cf7-8666-20a1add9971e.lplib/
        │           ├── 193ef70d-8dab-4a6c-a672-274c5bf09b68.lplib/
        │           └── c2c427a9-17c6-4400-981c-6ece1c9735c3.lplib/
        └── v2/
            └── settings.lp


# Upgrade workspace to newer application version {#doc_workspace_upgrade}

When the user opens the workspace with a specific application's major version the first time (e.g.
after updating LibrePCB from `v1.x` to `v2.x`), LibrePCB realizes that the new [version directory]
(e.g. `v2`) does not yet exist. Then probably a wizard will be shown to upgrade the workspace to the
newer version. Basically, an older [version directory] (e.g. `v1`) will just be cloned (e.g. to
`v2`) and the contained files will be upgraded then, if required.

It's also possible that a higher major version does not introduce a new library
file format (e.g. only projects have a new file format, but not libraries). In
that case, there is no need to clone all libraries. Instead, the new application
continues using the libraries of the older version. For example an application
of version `v2.x` may still use the libraries in the [version directory] `v1`.
So the [version directory] `v2` may only contain workspace settings (i.e.
`settings.lp`). Or if workspace settings are also compatible with the older
application version, the whole [version directory] `v2` is not created at all.


# Downgrade workspace to older application version {#doc_workspace_downgrade}

As the old [version directory] is not removed automatically after an upgrade, a downgrade is not
required at all. The workspace can thus smoothly be used with different application versions at the
same time. If an older [version directory] is no longer required for sure, the user can just remove
it by himself (to reduce disk usage). But this needs to be done carefully, as
an old [version directory] may still be used with newer application versions.


# Library Index (SQLite Database) {#doc_workspace_library_database}

For better performance of the workspace library (searching in the filesystem can be quite slow), an
[SQLite] database is used for caching/indexing (see librepcb::workspace::WorkspaceLibraryDb). From
time to time this database is filled/updated with metadata of all libraries and their elements.
Searching for elements is then done with `SELECT` statements in the database, which is very fast.

The database is stored in the [`version`](#doc_workspace_version_dir) directory of the workspace.


[UUID]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier "Universally Unique Identifier"
[SQLite]: https://sqlite.org/ "SQLite"
[version directory]: #doc_workspace_version_dir

Commit message:

Doxygen: Add database schema diagram (#650)

dev/doxygen/pages/workspace.md, after:

Workspace Specification {#doc_workspace}
========================================

[TOC]

This is the documentation of a LibrePCB workspace. Such a workspace is represented by an instance of
the class librepcb::workspace::Workspace.


# File Structure {#doc_workspace_file_structure}

Basically, a workspace contains following entries:

    workspace-root/
        ├── .librepcb-workspace
        ├── projects/
        └── v<VERSION>/
            ├── settings.lp
            └── libraries/
                ├── local/
                └── remote/

## .librepcb-workspace

This file indicates that the directory is a LibrePCB workspace and also contains the file format
version. See @ref doc_versioning for more information about LibrePCB's file format versioning system.
Because the workspace is intended to be forward compatible (i.e. should be usable with all future
LibrePCB releases), the workspace file format should always stay at `v0.1`.

## projects/ {#doc_workspace_projects_dir}

This is the default location where all newly created projects are stored. The user can organize his
projects in an arbitrary, hierarchical system inside that directory. But of course it's also
possible to store projects outside this directory.

Each project is represented by a directory, see its
[file structure documentation](@ref doc_project_filestructure) for details.

## v<VERSION>/ {#doc_workspace_version_dir}

For each major application version, a separate directory is created to store
workspace metadata (e.g. settings) and libraries. These directories are named
according the file format version of the application (e.g. `v0.1`, `v1` or `v2`).
A specific application version may access the metadata/libraries of its
corresponding directory or any older version directory. Directories of newer
versions will be ignored.

## v<VERSION>/settings.lp {#doc_workspace_settings_file}

This file contains workspace settings (selected language/locale, measurement
unit, ...).

## v<VERSION>/libraries/ {#doc_workspace_libraries_dir}

Here are all libraries located, split up into two subdirectories. By the way, all of these
libraries together are sometimes referred as *the workspace library*.

## v<VERSION>/libraries/local/ {#doc_workspace_local_dir}

In this directory are all regular, writable libraries located. For example if the user creates a new
library, it will be stored here. Each library is represented by one subdirectory. The contained file
structure is documented [here](@ref doc_library_file_structure).

The basename of the directories is freely choosable by the user, and the suffix must be `.lplib`.

## v<VERSION>/libraries/remote/ {#doc_workspace_remote_dir}

This directory contains also libraries, but only those which are managed by LibrePCB itself. So all
libraries which are downloaded through the [LibrePCB Repository API](@ref doc_repository) using the
library manager. Because they are updated by LibrePCB, the user cannot modify them (i.e. they are
read-only). To modify them anyway, the user can copy them as local libraries and make changes there.

The libraries [UUID] is used as directory basenames (with `.lplib` suffix) to avoid name conflicts.

# Example {#doc_workspace_example}

This is an example how a workspace could look like:

    MyAwesomeWorkspace/
        ├── .librepcb-workspace
        ├── projects/
        │   ├── Project_A/
        │   ├── Project_B/
        │   └── Project_C/
        ├── v0.1/
        │   ├── settings.lp
        │   └── libraries/
        │       ├── local/
        │       │   ├── Library_A.lplib/
        │       │   ├── Library_B.lplib/
        │       │   └── Library_C.lplib/
        │       └── remote/
        │           ├── 5d9abd1b-cf0b-4cf7-8666-20a1add9971e.lplib/
        │           ├── 193ef70d-8dab-4a6c-a672-274c5bf09b68.lplib/
        │           └── c2c427a9-17c6-4400-981c-6ece1c9735c3.lplib/
        ├── v1/
        │   ├── settings.lp
        │   └── libraries/
        │       ├── local/
        │       │   ├── Library_A.lplib/
        │       │   ├── Library_B.lplib/
        │       │   └── Library_C.lplib/
        │       └── remote/
        │           ├── 5d9abd1b-cf0b-4cf7-8666-20a1add9971e.lplib/
        │           ├── 193ef70d-8dab-4a6c-a672-274c5bf09b68.lplib/
        │           └── c2c427a9-17c6-4400-981c-6ece1c9735c3.lplib/
        └── v2/
            └── settings.lp


# Upgrade workspace to newer application version {#doc_workspace_upgrade}

When the user opens the workspace with a specific application's major version the first time (e.g.
after updating LibrePCB from `v1.x` to `v2.x`), LibrePCB realizes that the new [version directory]
(e.g. `v2`) does not yet exist. Then probably a wizard will be shown to upgrade the workspace to the
newer version. Basically, an older [version directory] (e.g. `v1`) will just be cloned (e.g. to
`v2`) and the contained files will be upgraded then, if required.

It's also possible that a higher major version does not introduce a new library
file format (e.g. only projects have a new file format, but not libraries). In
that case, there is no need to clone all libraries. Instead, the new application
continues using the libraries of the older version. For example an application
of version `v2.x` may still use the libraries in the [version directory] `v1`.
So the [version directory] `v2` may only contain workspace settings (i.e.
`settings.lp`). Or if workspace settings are also compatible with the older
application version, the whole [version directory] `v2` is not created at all.


# Downgrade workspace to older application version {#doc_workspace_downgrade}

As the old [version directory] is not removed automatically after an upgrade, a downgrade is not
required at all. The workspace can thus smoothly be used with different application versions at the
same time. If an older [version directory] is no longer required for sure, the user can just remove
it by himself (to reduce disk usage). But this needs to be done carefully, as
an old [version directory] may still be used with newer application versions.


# Library Index (SQLite Database) {#doc_workspace_library_database}

For better performance of the workspace library (searching in the filesystem can be quite slow), an
[SQLite] database is used for caching/indexing (see librepcb::workspace::WorkspaceLibraryDb). From
time to time this database is filled/updated with metadata of all libraries and their elements.
Searching for elements is then done with `SELECT` statements in the database, which is very fast.

The database is stored in the [`version`](#doc_workspace_version_dir) directory of the workspace.

Here is the current structure of the database:

![Database ERM](database_diagram.png)


[UUID]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier "Universally Unique Identifier"
[SQLite]: https://sqlite.org/ "SQLite"
[version directory]: #doc_workspace_version_dir
